README.md, before:

# VectorFusion: Text-to-SVG by Abstracting Pixel-Based Diffusion Models

In this work, the authors show that a text-conditioned diffusion model trained on pixel representations of images can be
used to
generate SVG-exportable vector graphics.

> official website: https://vectorfusion.github.io/

## Updates

- [01/2024] 🔥 **We released the [SVGDreamer](https://ximinng.github.io/SVGDreamer-project/). SVGDreamer is
  a novel text-guided vector graphics synthesis method. This method considers both the editing of vector graphics and
  the quality of the synthesis.**
- [12/2023] 🔥 **We released the [PyTorch-SVGRender](https://github.com/ximinng/PyTorch-SVGRender). Pytorch-SVGRender is
  the go-to library for state-of-the-art differentiable rendering methods for image vectorization.**
- [10/2023] 🔥 **We released the [DiffSketcher code](https://github.com/ximinng/DiffSketcher). A method of synthesizing
  vector sketches by text prompts.**
- [10/2023] 🔥 We released the VectorFusion code.

## Installation

Create a new conda environment:

```shell
conda create --name vf python=3.10
conda activate vf
```

Install pytorch and the following libraries:

```shell
conda install pytorch==1.13.1 torchvision==0.14.1 torchaudio==0.13.1 pytorch-cuda=11.6 -c pytorch -c nvidia
pip install omegaconf BeautifulSoup4
pip install shapely
pip install opencv-python scikit-image matplotlib visdom wandb
pip install triton numba
pip install numpy scipy timm scikit-fmm einops
pip install accelerate transformers safetensors datasets
```

Install CLIP:

```shell
pip install ftfy regex tqdm
pip install git+https://github.com/openai/CLIP.git
```

Install diffusers:

```shell
pip install diffusers==0.20.2
```

Install xformers (require `python=3.10`):

```shell
conda install xformers -c xformers
```

Install diffvg:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/BachiLi/diffvg.git
cd diffvg
git submodule update --init --recursive
conda install -y -c anaconda cmake
conda install -y -c conda-forge ffmpeg
pip install svgwrite svgpathtools cssutils torch-tools
python setup.py install
```

## Quickstart

**Example:**

Preview:

| <img src="./img/Sydney_Opera_House_LIVE.svg" style="width: 300px; height: 300px;"> | <img src="./img/Sydney_Opera_House_finetune.svg" style="width: 300px; height: 300px;"> |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| convert to SVG with LIVE                                                           | fine-tune with VectorFusion                                                            |

Script:

```shell
python run_painterly_render.py \ 
  -c vectorfusion.yaml \
  -pt "the Sydney Opera House. minimal flat 2d vector icon. lineal color. on a white background. trending on artstation" \
  -save_step 10 \ 
  -update "K=4" \ 
  -respath ./workdir/Sydney \
  -d 857578 \
  --download

python run_painterly_render.py -c vectorfusion.yaml -pt "the Sydney Opera House. minimal flat 2d vector icon. lineal color. on a white background. trending on artstation" -save_step 10 -update "K=4" -rdbz
```

- `-c` a.k.a `--config`: configuration file.
- `-save_step`: the step size used to save the result (**too frequent calls will result in longer times**).
- `-update`: a tool for editing the hyper-params of the configuration file, so you don't need to create a new yaml.
- `-pt` a.k.a `--prompt`: text prompt.
- `-respath` a.k.a `--results_path`: the folder to save results.
- `-d` a.k.a `--seed`: random seed.
- `--download`: download models from huggingface automatically **when you first run them**.

optional:

- `-npt`, a.k.a `--negative_prompt`: negative text prompt.
- `-mv`, a.k.a `--make_video`: make a video of the rendering process (**it will take much longer**).
- `-frame_freq`, a.k.a `--video_frame_freq`: control video frame.

**More Examples:**

- check the [examples.md](https://github.com/ximinng/VectorFusion-pytorch/examples.md) for more cases.

**More Scripts:**

- check the [Run.md](https://github.com/ximinng/VectorFusion-pytorch/RUN.md) for more scripts.

## Acknowledgement

The project is built based on the following repository:

- [BachiLi/diffvg](https://github.com/BachiLi/diffvg)
- [huggingface/diffusers](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers)
- [ximinng/DiffSketcher](https://github.com/ximinng/DiffSketcher)

We gratefully thank the authors for their wonderful works.

## Citation

If you use this code for your research, please cite the following work:

```
@inproceedings{jain2023vectorfusion,
  title={Vectorfusion: Text-to-svg by abstracting pixel-based diffusion models},
  author={Jain, Ajay and Xie, Amber and Abbeel, Pieter},
  booktitle={Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition},
  pages={1911--1920},
  year={2023}
}

@inproceedings{
    xing2023diffsketcher,
    title={DiffSketcher: Text Guided Vector Sketch Synthesis through Latent Diffusion Models},
    author={XiMing Xing and Chuang Wang and Haitao Zhou and Jing Zhang and Qian Yu and Dong Xu},
    booktitle={Thirty-seventh Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems},
    year={2023},
    url={https://openreview.net/forum?id=CY1xatvEQj}
}
```

## Licence

This repo is licensed under a MIT License.

Commit message:

docs(readme): update README.md

README.md, after:

# VectorFusion: Text-to-SVG by Abstracting Pixel-Based Diffusion Models

In this work, the authors show that a text-conditioned diffusion model trained on pixel representations of images can be
used to
generate SVG-exportable vector graphics.

> official website: https://vectorfusion.github.io/

## Updates

- [01/2024] 🔥 **We released the [SVGDreamer](https://ximinng.github.io/SVGDreamer-project/). SVGDreamer is
  a novel text-guided vector graphics synthesis method. This method considers both the editing of vector graphics and
  the quality of the synthesis.**
- [12/2023] 🔥 **We released the [PyTorch-SVGRender](https://github.com/ximinng/PyTorch-SVGRender). Pytorch-SVGRender is
  the go-to library for state-of-the-art differentiable rendering methods for image vectorization.**
- [10/2023] 🔥 **We released the [DiffSketcher code](https://github.com/ximinng/DiffSketcher). A method of synthesizing
  vector sketches by text prompts.**
- [10/2023] 🔥 We released the VectorFusion code.

## Installation

Create a new conda environment:

```shell
conda create --name vf python=3.10
conda activate vf
```

Install pytorch and the following libraries:

```shell
conda install pytorch==1.13.1 torchvision==0.14.1 torchaudio==0.13.1 pytorch-cuda=11.6 -c pytorch -c nvidia
pip install omegaconf BeautifulSoup4
pip install shapely
pip install opencv-python scikit-image matplotlib visdom wandb
pip install triton numba
pip install numpy scipy timm scikit-fmm einops
pip install accelerate transformers safetensors datasets
```

Install CLIP:

```shell
pip install ftfy regex tqdm
pip install git+https://github.com/openai/CLIP.git
```

Install diffusers:

```shell
pip install diffusers==0.20.2
```

Install xformers (require `python=3.10`):

```shell
conda install xformers -c xformers
```

Install diffvg:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/BachiLi/diffvg.git
cd diffvg
git submodule update --init --recursive
conda install -y -c anaconda cmake
conda install -y -c conda-forge ffmpeg
pip install svgwrite svgpathtools cssutils torch-tools
python setup.py install
```

## Quickstart

**Example:**

Preview:

| <img src="./img/Sydney_Opera_House_SD.png" style="width: 250px; height: 250px;"> | <img src="./img/Sydney_Opera_House_LIVE.svg" style="width: 250px; height: 250px;"> | <img src="./img/Sydney_Opera_House_finetune.svg" style="width: 250px; height: 250px;"> |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| (a) Sample a raster image with Stable Diffusion                                  | (b) convert to SVG with LIVE                                                       | (c) fine-tune with VectorFusion                                                        |

Script:

```shell
python run_painterly_render.py \ 
  -c vectorfusion.yaml \
  -pt "the Sydney Opera House. minimal flat 2d vector icon. lineal color. on a white background. trending on artstation" \
  -save_step 10 \ 
  -update "K=4" \ 
  -respath ./workdir/Sydney \
  -d 857578 \
  --download
```

- `-c` a.k.a `--config`: configuration file.
- `-save_step`: the step size used to save the result (**too frequent calls will result in longer times**).
- `-update`: a tool for editing the hyper-params of the configuration file, so you don't need to create a new yaml.
- `-pt` a.k.a `--prompt`: text prompt.
- `-respath` a.k.a `--results_path`: the folder to save results.
- `-d` a.k.a `--seed`: random seed.
- `--download`: download models from huggingface automatically **when you first run them**.

optional:

- `-npt`, a.k.a `--negative_prompt`: negative text prompt.
- `-mv`, a.k.a `--make_video`: make a video of the rendering process (**it will take much longer**).
- `-frame_freq`, a.k.a `--video_frame_freq`: the interval of the number of steps to save the image.
- `-framerate`, a.k.a `--video_frame_rate`: control the playback speed of the output video.

**More Examples:**

- check the [examples.md](https://github.com/ximinng/VectorFusion-pytorch/examples.md) for more cases.

**More Scripts:**

- check the [Run.md](https://github.com/ximinng/VectorFusion-pytorch/RUN.md) for more scripts.

## Acknowledgement

The project is built based on the following repository:

- [BachiLi/diffvg](https://github.com/BachiLi/diffvg)
- [huggingface/diffusers](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers)
- [ximinng/DiffSketcher](https://github.com/ximinng/DiffSketcher)

We gratefully thank the authors for their wonderful works.

## Citation

If you use this code for your research, please cite the following work:

```
@inproceedings{jain2023vectorfusion,
  title={Vectorfusion: Text-to-svg by abstracting pixel-based diffusion models},
  author={Jain, Ajay and Xie, Amber and Abbeel, Pieter},
  booktitle={Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition},
  pages={1911--1920},
  year={2023}
}

@inproceedings{
    xing2023diffsketcher,
    title={DiffSketcher: Text Guided Vector Sketch Synthesis through Latent Diffusion Models},
    author={XiMing Xing and Chuang Wang and Haitao Zhou and Jing Zhang and Qian Yu and Dong Xu},
    booktitle={Thirty-seventh Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems},
    year={2023},
    url={https://openreview.net/forum?id=CY1xatvEQj}
}
```

## Licence

This repo is licensed under a MIT License.
